# QSAR-DMZ
The rapidly increasing characterization of RNA tertiary structures has revealed their pervasiveness and active roles in human diseases. Small molecule-mediated modulation of RNA tertiary structures constitutes an attractive avenue for the development of tools for both therapeutically targeting and/or uncovering the pathways associated with these RNA motifs. This potential has been highlighted by preliminary targeting of the triple helix present at the 3'-end of the non-coding RNA MALAT1, a transcript implicated in several human diseases. This triplex has been reported to decrease the transcript susceptibility to degradation and, ultimately, promote its cellular accumulation. While small molecules have been shown to bind and impact the stability of the MALAT1 triple helix, the small molecule properties that lead to these structural modulations are not well understood. To elucidate these properties, we designed a focused library utilizing the diminazene scaffold, which is under-explored but precedented for nucleic acid binding, to target the MALAT1 triple helix. We then employed multiple assays to holistically assess what parameters, if any, could predict small molecule affinity and effect on triplex stability. We designed and/or optimized competition, calorimetry, and thermal shift assays as well as an enzymatic degradation assay, the latter of which led to the discovery of bidirectional modulators of triple helix stability within the scaffold-centric library. Determination of quantitative structure activity relationships (QSAR) afforded predictive models for both affinity- and stability-based assays. This work establishes a suite of powerful orthogonal biophysical tools for the evaluation of small molecule:RNA triplex interactions that generate predictive models and will allow small molecule interrogation of the growing body of disease-associated RNA triple helices.
## Requirements
#### RStudio == 1.4.1717
- car
- Ggplot2
- Glmnet
#### MATLAB == R2020a
## More Information
For more information, please refer to our paper:
Coming soon!
## Acknowledgements
This work was supported by Duke University, U.S. National Institutes of Health (U54 AI150470), the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, and an award from Duke University School of Medicine Core Facilities for use of the BIA Core. Z.C. was supported in part by a Kathleen Zielik Fellowship from the Duke University Chemistry Department. We acknowledge past and present Hargrove Lab members for their assistance with project conceptualization and manuscript editing. We particularly thank former lab members Dr. Neeraj Patwardhan, Ph.D., Dr. Anita Donlic, Ph.D. and Dr. Aline Umuhire Juru, Ph.D. for donating the synthesized DMA, DPF and DMA molecules used here. We thank Duke graduate student Jiayue Xu from interdisciplinary data science for constructive discussions and suggestions. Surface plasmon resonance analyses were performed in the Duke Human Vaccine Institute's Biomolecular Interaction Analysis Shared Resource Facility (Durham, NC) under the direction of Dr. S. Munir Alam and Dr. Brian E. Watts.
## Questions?
Make a [github issue](https://github.com/hargrove-lab/QSAR/issues/new), or email us: zc83@duke.edu :email:
